---
date: 03.03.2024
keys: #identity #change
---

# Ship of Theseus
* Thought experiement first introduced (or just preserved) by Plutarch.

## Origin
Theseus is a praised divine hero from Greek mythology, king and founder of Athens.
After killing the minotaur he escaped onto the ship going to Delos.

## Original Formulation
After several hundreds years of maintenance, if each individual piece of the Ship of Theseus was replaced,
one after the other, is this still the same ship?

## General
Does an object remains the same object after all of its original components have been replaced?

## Notes
It comes down to the question of identity. Or rather what represents it. Or how we see it.
In this example the somewhat unclear relationship between an object and the material it was made from makes it a paradox.

It could be time-related, since every component
was replaced in different time and one can say for certain
if the ship was destroyed all at once and built anew,
then nobody would consider it the same ship.
Best case scenario it would be a replica or a copy.

Guess even with objects identity is as fragile as life.
Once the person is dead, its identity disappears and
giving identity to an unliving thing makes it more alive.

Similar to attachment.
Kid gets attached to a plushie and the worst-imaginable thing happens - the plushie gets destroyed or lost.
Not even the exact same copy of the plushie will restore the same emotional bond the kid had with previous seemingly identical toy.

Goes to show that identity is a label that gets attached to an object by our minds.
In a way it gives life to a thing. Since it inherits the fragility of the living.
Identity could be not only personal emotional connections...

# References
* [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus)
